---
layout: default
title: Snapp Mobile iOS Newsletter 14
issue: 14
tags: [Metal shaders, AppIntents getting started, Interactive widgets, Shared with You, Relative dates formatting]
date: 2024-11-01
---

Hello,

What a week for the Mac, right? Apple introduced new hardware across the entire lineup (even a smaller mini) with 16G of RAM on the entry level models. It seems like there's not much to complain about here.

In other news iOS 18.1 rolled out this week with Apple Intelligence outside the EU but it looks like an agreement had been reached for the feature to launch in the EU with iOS 18.4. It's going to be a wait!

With that - enjoy the rest that we have picked for you!

## Swift

### [AnchoredRelativeFormatStyle: The Hidden Replacement for Date RelativeFormatStyle](https://alejandromp.com/development/blog/anchored-relative-format-style-the-hidden-replacement-for-date-relative-format-style/)

Working with date/time can be tricky - ask anyone who had to do time zone conversions or time-based calculations. One of the most common things to do with dates is to present them in relation to an event (think of lines like "published 2 hours ago"). The new `Foundation` library comes with an `AnchoredRelativeFormatStyle` that simplifies the steps to do so, and this article explains how.

### [Building a Custom Observer in Swift: A Deep Dive into Notifications with Async/Await](https://swiftacademy.hashnode.dev/building-a-custom-observer-in-swift-a-deep-dive-into-notifications-with-asyncawait)

There are many ways to approach a problem and sometimes borrowing ideas from what's existing is the way. This article digs on how to implement a custom notification center that runs on modern Swift Concurrency but has some advantages over the iOS's `NotificationCenter`. It's also a nice way to refresh your knowledge on the Observer design pattern.

## UI/UX

### [Getting Started With App Intents](https://useyourloaf.com/blog/getting-started-with-app-intents/)

`AppIntents` are a way to share a piece of an app-specific functionality with the OS. It allows your functionality to be used with voice commands and it enables other apps to share their content with yours. With Apple Intelligence already available for most people, having some of your app logic running on `AppIntents` is a great way to ensure that the OS will remind the users about the app and will promote it when applicable. This article is a great starting point.

### [Creating an interactive widget with SwiftUI](https://www.createwithswift.com/creating-interactive-widget-swiftui/)

If having an app intent alone does not justify it yet, this may change your mind. With iOS 17 Apple introduced a new type of widget - a one that you can interact with. It's build on top of the `AppIntents` framework and it allows core pieces of your app to be used without having to open it. Being a good citizen is important even for apps and here's an article to help you get your first interactive widget up and running.

### [Sparkling shiny things with Metal and SwiftUI](https://uvolchyk.medium.com/sparkling-shiny-things-with-metal-and-swiftui-cba69c730a24)

Metal has a reputation of a library that only hardcore programmers toy with. While some of the concepts require serious mathematical background, the basics are as approachable as any other Apple framework, should you be interested. Recently we stumbled on a fascinating article on using Metal for implementing non-trivial button animations. Not only that but it has the whole approach described in such detail that we think you'll like it too.

### [Shared with You implementation and testing explained](https://www.avanderlee.com/swift/shared-with-you/)

_Shared with you_ is not a new feature. It was introduced with iOS 16 couple of years ago but there are not that many apps that have adopted it. What it enables us is to highlight content shared in Messages inside our apps. Thus way we can keep track of things without scrolling through long conversations. Here's how to adopt it in your apps.

## Tools

### [GitHub Copilot for Xcode](https://github.com/github/CopilotForXcode)

With Xcode 16 Apple started shipping a predictive code completion model to help us write code faster. Some people are not happy with it though, and now there's an alternative. The first version of the Github Copilot plugin for Xcode is labeled as beta, but you can give it a shot by following the steps described in the repository.

## Talk

### [Just Save a File, It's Easy, Right?!](https://youtu.be/lHXjs3L2ads)

[Mikaela Caron](https://x.com/mikaela__caron) with an interesting talk on this year's Swift Server Conference. File upload/download is among the very core features of what we call the web today. Ironically it's a feature that has many pitfalls nad considerations to be made on the server-side. A talk with a twist, for sure.
