---
layout: default
title: Snapp Mobile iOS Newsletter 30
issue: 30
tags: [Custom lazy SwiftUI Lists, SwiftUI's _VariadicView, SwiftData with ModelActor, Swift and CMake, Linking bugs with Swift Testing]
date: 2025-03-07
---

Hi folks,

This week's newsletter is heavy on the UI/UX side with articles related to phase animations, performance optimizations, leveraging some  _private, but safe to use_ SwiftUI views and more.

Enjoy!

## Swift

### [Task.sleep() vs. Task.yield(): The differences explained](https://www.avanderlee.com/concurrency/task-sleep-vs-yield-differences/)

Swift Concurrency allows us to use `Task.sleep()` and `Task.yield()` to let a specific task sleep or yield for a period of time. Both look and behave similarly, but there are a few significant differences to be aware of. Find out more by tapping the link above.

## UI/UX

### [SwiftUI Phase Animation "Bug"](https://chris.eidhof.nl/post/swiftui-phase-animation-bug/)

Here's [Chris Eidhof](https://bsky.app/profile/eidhof.nl) with a short article on dealing with SwiftUI's phase animators. He noticed that phase animators weren’t behaving as expected, and he initially assumed that he’d found a bug in SwiftUI. It turned out that there was no bug, but another SwiftUI _gotcha_.

### [SwiftUI Performance - How to use UIKit](https://swiftwithmajid.com/2025/03/04/swiftui-performance-how-to-use-uikit/)

What many developers do when adopting SwiftUI is to build some views for their existing UIKit apps as a start. While this works, there's a tradeoff—every `UIHostingController` creates its own SwiftUI environment, which means you can’t share data between them. Moreover, using UIKit for navigation and SwiftUI for some views was considered the best practice for years. Things are changing, and what may be considered best practice these days is exactly the opposite—use SwiftUI's navigation mechanisms and rely on UIKit only when performance is critical.

### [Designing a custom lazy list in SwiftUI with better performance](https://nilcoalescing.com/blog/CustomLazyListInSwiftUI/)

Our apps often need to handle large datasets efficiently, but SwiftUI’s standard `List` can struggle with performance as the number of items grows. A common alternative is wrapping a `LazyHStack` in a `ScrollView`, but this approach also struggles with large datasets. This article goes through the process of creating a custom view with some logic to recycle its views to achieve the desired performance. While the article is heavily Mac-related, the samples can be used on iOS as well.

### [Secret SwiftUI: A practical use for _VariadicView](https://blog.jacobstechtavern.com/p/secret-swiftui)

`_VariadicView` is a private-ish SwiftUI API, as it is the underlying implementation detail for many of the container views we use every day. Despite being an underscored “private” API, it’s safe to use in production—many `@frozen` SwiftUI APIs explicitly conform to the protocol. You won’t have to worry about app review when using it—the API is already emitted into your code implicitly whenever you use a SwiftUI container view like `HStack`.

## Data

### [SwiftData CRUD Operations with ModelActor](https://brightdigit.com/tutorials/swiftdata-crud-operations-modelactor/)

`ModelActor` is an approach that claims to make it "much easier to work with `SwiftData` in a concurrent environment while maintaining the safety guarantees that Swift provides." After reading the article, we agree — we like it a lot.

## Testing

### [XCTest vs Swift Testing: A modern way of linking bugs](https://www.mobiledevdiary.com/posts/series/swift-testing-vs-xctest/7-bugs-linking/)

With the new Swift `Testing` framework, we have a special bug trait that can be passed to the `@Test` macro. The bug trait takes a URL String as an argument and optionally a title, allowing us to add a short description of the bug. The key advantage over a regular comment is that the bug title is visible in the test results. Better yet, tapping on it takes you directly to the related webpage with the bug report. Here's how to use it.

## Utils

### [Swift CMake Examples](https://github.com/apple/swift-cmake-examples)

Here's a link to a repository that contains a number of examples for using `CMake` to build Swift with different project layouts. The examples include using `CMake` to build pure-Swift projects and projects that use Swift-C++ interoperability.
