---
layout: default
title: Snapp Mobile iOS Newsletter 32
issue: 32
tags: [Virtual Memory in iOS, Animate UIKit views using SwiftUI animations, Share extension conversation suggestions, Sign up with Apple, CoreData debugging, SwiftWasm book]
date: 2025-03-21
---

Hi folks,

This week we're looking at the internals of the virtual memory management in iOS, we experiment with using `SwiftUI` animations in `UIKit`, we set up Sign in with Apple on the server and in an app. We also look at debugging `CoreData` before we get to a useful article on some considerations that need to be made before adopting `SwiftData`. We round up with a "book" on Swift Wasm, to make this newsletter packed with interesting stuff.

Enjoy!

## Swift

### [Size Matters: An Exploration of Virtual Memory on iOS](https://alwaysprocessing.blog/2022/02/20/size-matters)

This is an article that came out of experiencing an odd out-of-memory problem when attempting to debug an iOS app on device. The app consistently crashed shortly after launch, preventing the author from investigating the bug. To unblock himself, he learned a lot about the iOS virtual memory implementation and documented his findings here.

## UI/UX

### [Animate UIKit views with SwiftUI animations in iOS 18](https://nilcoalescing.com/blog/AnimateUIKitViewsWithSwiftUIAnimations/)

Starting with iOS 18, Apple now gives us a powerful new feature: the ability to animate `UIKit` views using `SwiftUI` animation types. This bridges the gap between the two frameworks even further, allowing us to bring the flexibility and expressiveness of `SwiftUI` animation system to UIKit-based projects.

### [Understand and implement Share Extension Conversation Suggestions in Swift for iOS](https://medium.com/@aakashstha/understand-and-implement-share-extension-conversation-suggestions-in-swift-for-ios-a6956d7d8722)

Conversation suggestions are a feature introduced with iOS 13. They present a row of suggested sharing recipients, offering convenient one-tap access to your recommended contacts, when sharing images, videos, website URLs, or any files outside of your application making it easy to share quickly and effortlessly. Developers have the choice to update their apps to support Siri’s messaging domain when sending messages and enabling their apps to appear in the share sheet. This article explains how.

### [Setting Up Sign in with Apple with Server Side Swift and SwiftUI](https://brightdigit.com/tutorials/full-stack-sign-in-with-apple/)

Sign in with Apple provides both secure, privacy-focused and an easy alternative to the standard user name and password interface on watchOS. This article shows us how to set up Sign in with Apple on our servers, implement Sign in with Apple in our `SwiftUI` apps, and gives us tips on how to handle authentication tokens securely.

## visionOS

### [Collisions & Physics: Getting started with Collision Component](https://stepinto.vision/example-code/collisions-physics-getting-started-with-collision-component/)

We can use the Collision Component for interacting with `RealityKit` entities using system gestures or to trigger app events and/or animations when entities collide. This article is an entry point that you may not want to miss.

## Data

### [Core Data Debugging in Xcode using launch arguments](https://www.avanderlee.com/debugging/core-data-debugging-xcode/)

`CoreData` has been around for some time, and many developers still consider it a great solution to use for persistent storage of structured data in your application. Debugging `CoreData` can be challenging, but some less-known functionalities in Xcode can help you a lot. This article explains how.

### [Key Considerations Before Using SwiftData](https://fatbobman.com/en/posts/key-considerations-before-using-swiftdata/)

`SwiftData` is the long-anticipated successor of Core Data, but being relatively new, it still has some limitations. This article aims to serve as a guide for developers interested in `SwiftData`, helping us to understand its strengths and limitations so that we can make informed decisions based on our project needs.

## Book

### [Swift Wasm book](https://book.swiftwasm.org/index.html)

We stumble upon bookmark-worthy findings pretty often these days. Recently, we've been collecting information around WebAssembly (abbreviated as Wasm). Wasm is designed as a portable compilation target for programming languages, enabling deployment on the web for client and server applications. SwiftWasm is an open source project to support the WebAssembly target for Swift. The goal of this project is to fully support the WebAssembly target for Swift and to be merged into the upstream repository. The book is being updated as the implementation progresses, so keep an eye on it.
